Title: This blog is still alive
Date: 2017-08-01

It's been ten months – minus two days – since the last time I wrote anything here. A lot of stuff has happened in these last 10 months and I'm going to summarise all of it in a list:

- I went to Japan with Magda for my honeymoon. It was amazing, although it would have been even better if I could have understood some Japanese.
- We tried going back to Spain for New Year's Eve, but our flight got cancelled. We made the best of the situation and at least we enjoyed a delicious dinner and a couple of very peaceful days at home.
- I started taking film pictures and developing my own film.
- I spent a few weeks improving my iOS and Android skills. And I had a lot of fun.
- I stopped taking film pictures and developing my own film.
- I went to San Francisco for Google IO 2017. I started playing with Kotlin, the new language announced for Android. I'd love to be able to use it at a professional level. Perhaps one of these days?
- My niece was born! :) She's great, but I won't be posting pictures of her online.
- Magda took me to Brugges for our anniversary. SO. MUCH. BEER. EVERYWHERE. We were incredibly lucky with the weather and I can't stress enough how much I liked Belgium.
- Generally, I've increased the load of comics I read since Christmas. I've caught up with a lot of series I started a few years ago – *Y: The Last Man*, *The Walking Dead*, *Saga* – and I've started following many series. I might write about some of them in the future.

I'll try to force myself to write at least once or twice a month from now one, at least short posts.

PS: the reason I've decided to bring this back to life is this morning I got charged $6 by Digital Ocean and I felt bad I wasn't doing anything productive with my server! This is a start.
